ROX-14549: Explaining Red Hat SSO configuration in ACS Console (#56937)
openshift/openshift-docs: installing/getting-started-rhacs-cloud-ocp.adoc

* Ensure that at least one secured cluster is connected to your {product-title-managed-short} instance. For more information, see the "Installing secured cluster resources on each cluster" section.
* Examine your Sensor pod logs to ensure that the connection to your {product-title-managed-short} instance is successful.
* In the {ocp-short} cluster, navigate to *Platform Configuration* -> *Clusters* to verify that the components are healthy and view additional operational information.
* Examine the values in the `SecuredCluster` API in the Operator on your local cluster to ensure that the *Central API Endpoint* has been entered correctly. This value should be the same value as shown in the *ACS instance* details in the {cloud-console}.

[id="default-access-acs-console"]

> == Default access to ACS Console

Author: I see that in other places on this page we use `ACS console`:
https://github.com/openshift/openshift-docs/pull/56937/files#diff-c2cb558c2dcfa44700c085634e596073c1abc560a5eb793fb5b3620cb75a5458R117

Out of curiosity, is this case somehow different?

> == Default access to ACS Console

Reviewer: It is called the ACS Console in the GUI, so the docs match that for ACSCS. Is this section only for ACSCS? (Not sure why it was named "ACS Console" in the GUI, but that's a separate issue. :)

By default, the only authentication mechanism available to users is authentication via Red Hat SSO.

> Red Hat SSO auth provider cannot be deleted or changed.

Reviewer 2: Default RHSSO auth provider cannot be deleted and *some* of its settings cannot be changed. This is to prevent users from locking themselves out of their ACS instance.

However, we strongly encourage users to set up their own IdP. Pro tip: the name of their auth provider is ideally lexicographically smaller than "Red Hat ..." so their IdP comes first and is hence the default one on the ACS console login screen.

> Red Hat SSO auth provider cannot be deleted or changed.

Author: > You can't delete the Red Hat SSO or change its settings, but is it true that you can configure a different IdP (after the initial setup)?

Correct, you can configure a different IdP once you accessed the instance via Red Hat SSO.

However, you can change minimum access role and add additional rules.

[NOTE]
====

> In case you want more control over access to your ACS console, it is recommended not to rely on default auth provider.

Author: What I meant by "default" authentication provider here is the provider that is already set up in the ACS instance, so essentially `Red Hat SSO` auth provider. Every next authentication provider would not be a default one. Perhaps I should refrain from calling `Red Hat SSO` auth provider "default" auth provider?

Overall, we want our customers to follow next approach:
* if they want access to be limited only to the user who created the ACS instance + org admins, they can leave authentication as it is
* if they want to give access to other Red Hat users within the same org, it is doable via e-mail
* if their use case does not fit aforementioned case, they should go ahead and set up their own identity provider

> In case you want more control over access to your ACS console, it is recommended not to rely on default auth provider.

Reviewer 2: Not just change, but set up. Also, there is no such thing really as default auth provider but see the pro tip from my comment above.

> In case you want more control over access to your ACS console, it is recommended not to rely on default auth provider.

Author: Replaced usages of `default` with `Red Hat SSO` + reworded this sentence.

> You can set up your own IdP provider right after provisioning using one of the guides under `Operating -> Managing user access`

Reviewer: I would link to this directly in the docs, but there is no index page, only individual pages for each type of IdP.

> You can set up your own IdP provider right after provisioning using one of the guides under `Operating -> Managing user access`

Reviewer 2: That's a bummer. Maybe we should place those individual pages in a separate folder, create a generic instruction (what @agantony is working on) page, and link to that page?

> You can set up your own IdP provider right after provisioning using one of the guides under `Operating -> Managing user access`

Author: Good idea. Let's keep it in mind as a follow-up for this PR(or we can do it here if @agantony work gets merged earlier)

====

> Default auth provider has required attribute `rh_org_id` set to the organisation ID assigned to your account.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The default authentication provider has the required attribute `rh_org_id` set to the organization ID assigned to your account.
```

Reviewer 2: Let's not call it "default" anywhere in this doc because no such concept exists. Instead, I suggest "preconfigured RHSSO" or "built-in" or something along the lines.

Reviewer 2: "your organization", "the organization" terms are vague. What we speak about here is organization in terms of Red Hat SSO. I suggest we introduce this concept above. Let's make it clear here.

Also "your account" is vague. It's the account of the user who created the ACSCS instance.

Author: Regarding the "organization" term: I wonder if it should be explained somewhere earlier in the process. When users access https://console.redhat.com/beta/application-services/acs/instances, they see ACS instances of other users within the same organization. Explaining what organization means on the stage when ACS is already created might be too late.

Saying that, with the help of the IT team I found the next definition of "organization account": https://source.redhat.com/groups/public/ciams/docs/topic_external_sso_enablements#attributes-needed, see `Organization account ID`. I reused it partially within this paragraph - it does not feel right to create a separate subsection just for two sentences.

> The default authentication provider has the required attribute `rh_org_id` set to the organization ID assigned to your account.

Reviewer 2: @ivan-degtiarenko, could you please expand this section a bit with the info on how we integrate with RHSSO? Specifically:
* Create a dedicated dynamic client (in OIDC terms) per each cloud Central
* Forward some claims from RHSSO token to the ACS issued token, for example `rh_org_id` and `is_org_admin` for subsequent checks
* Re-use the same realm for all cloud Centrals, ensuring access control by verifying the org id claim in the instance; here it would be nice to link to the section where we recommend bringing their own IdP
* Set up some mappings to bootstrap access to the instance

> Only users from your organisation can access ACS console via Red Hat SSO auth provider.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Only users from your organization can access the {product-title-short} console by using the Red Hat SSO authentication provider.
```

> Minimum access role is set to `None`. Assigning different value to this field will give access to ACS instance

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The minimum access role is set to `None`. Assigning a different value to this field will give access to the {product-title-short} instance
```

> to all users within organisation.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
to all users within the organization.
```

Reviewer: If there is a hard return between "instance" and "to all users" please remove.

> Other rules set up in default auth provider:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Other rules that are set up in the default authentication provider include the following:
```

* Rule mapping your `userid` to `Admin`

> * Rules mapping administrators of organisation to `Admin`

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* Rules mapping administrators of the organization to `Admin`
```

> You can add more rules to grant access to ACS console to someone else in your organization, for example, using `email` as a key.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You can add more rules to grant access to the {product-title-short} web console to someone else in your organization; for example, by using `email` as a key.
```

Author: @rukletsov I wouldn't advertise using `groups` in `sso.redhat.com` case - mainly because I don't know any beneficial use case except for `admin:org:all`. I advertised `email` as a convenient way to grant access to a single user - to give access to a group of users I would use some other identity provider I have more control over.

Reviewer 2: Aha, good point. I'd then add a note saying that in case of own IdP we advice to use `groups` for portability.

We map next claims from the token issued by `sso.redhat.com` to ACS-issued token:

* `realm_access.roles` to `groups`
* `org_id` to `rh_org_id`
* `is_org_admin` to `rh_is_org_admin`
* `sub` to `userid`

The built-in Red Hat SSO authentication provider has the required attribute `rh_org_id` set to the organization ID assigned to account of the user who created the ACSCS instance.
This is the ID of the organizational account the user is a part of. This can be thought of as the "tenant" the user is under and owned by.
Only users with the same organizational account can access the {product-title-short} console by using the Red Hat SSO authentication provider.

[NOTE]
====
To gain more control over access to your {product-title-short} web console, it is highly recommended not to rely on Red Hat SSO auth provider.
You can set up your own Identity provider right after provisioning using one of the guides under `Operating -> Managing user access`. *Pro tip*: for this authentication provider to be the first authentication option on the login page, its name should be lexicographically smaller than `Red Hat SSO`.
====

> The minimum access role is set to `None`. Assigning a different value to this field will give access to the {product-title-short} instance to all users with the same organizational account.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The minimum access role is set to `None`. Assigning a different value to this field gives access to the ACSCS instance to all users with the same organizational account.
```

Reviewer: For now, I'm leaving the product names in, but we have variables for them.

Author: @kcarmichael08 do you want to reuse product names within this PR?

Reviewer: We can if you don't mind? They are:

```
:rh-rhacscs-first: Red Hat Advanced Cluster Security Cloud Service (RHACS Cloud service)
:product-title-managed-short: RHACS Cloud Service
```

Reviewer: Although I am not sure the second one is correct, but I guess the idea is we can change the variable later if the product name gets tweaked.

Other rules that are set up in the built-in Red Hat SSO authentication provider include the following:

* Rule mapping your `userid` to `Admin`
* Rules mapping administrators of the organization to `Admin`

> You can add more rules to grant access to the {product-title-short} web console to someone else with the same organizational account; for example, by using `email` as a key.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You can add more rules to grant access to the ACS Console to someone else with the same organizational account; for example, by using `email` as a key.
```

You cannot delete or change the Red Hat SSO authentication provider.
However, you can change the minimum access role and add additional rules, or add another identity provider.

A dedicated OIDC client of `sso.redhat.com` is created for each ACS Console. All OIDC clients share the same `sso.redhat.com` realm.
Claims from the token issued by `sso.redhat.com` are mapped to an ACS-issued token as follows:

* `realm_access.roles` to `groups`
* `org_id` to `rh_org_id`
* `is_org_admin` to `rh_is_org_admin`
* `sub` to `userid`

The built-in Red Hat SSO authentication provider has the required attribute `rh_org_id` set to the organization ID assigned to account of the user who created the ACSCS instance.
This is the ID of the organizational account the user is a part of. This can be thought of as the "tenant" the user is under and owned by.
Only users with the same organizational account can access the ACS console by using the Red Hat SSO authentication provider.

[NOTE]
====
To gain more control over access to your ACS Console, configure another identity provider instead of relying on the Red Hat SSO authentication provider.

> You can set up your own identity provider right after provisioning using one of the guides under `Operating -> Managing user access`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You can set up your own identity provider after provisioning by using one of the guides under `Operating -> Managing user access`.
```

====
[NOTE]
====

> *Pro tip*: for this authentication provider to be the first authentication option on the login page, its name should be lexicographically smaller than `Red Hat SSO`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To configure this authentication provider to be the first authentication option on the login page, its name should be lexicographically smaller than `Red Hat SSO`.
```

* Ensure that at least one secured cluster is connected to your {product-title-managed-short} instance. For more information, see the "Installing secured cluster resources on each cluster" section.
* Examine your Sensor pod logs to ensure that the connection to your {product-title-managed-short} instance is successful.
* In the {ocp-short} cluster, navigate to *Platform Configuration* -> *Clusters* to verify that the components are healthy and view additional operational information.
* Examine the values in the `SecuredCluster` API in the Operator on your local cluster to ensure that the *Central API Endpoint* has been entered correctly. This value should be the same value as shown in the *ACS instance* details in the {cloud-console}.

[id="default-access-acs-console"]
== Default access to ACS Console

By default, the authentication mechanism available to users is authentication by using Red Hat Single Sign-On (SSO).
You cannot delete or change the Red Hat SSO authentication provider.
However, you can change the minimum access role and add additional rules, or add another identity provider.

[NOTE]
====

> To learn how authentication providers work in ACS, visit the following page: xref:../operating/manage-user-access/understanding-authentication-providers.adoc[Understanding authentication providers]

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To learn how authentication providers work in ACS, visit xref:../operating/manage-user-access/understanding-authentication-providers.adoc[Understanding authentication providers].
```

Reviewer 3: /s .... work in RHACS?

====

A dedicated OIDC client of `sso.redhat.com` is created for each ACS Console. All OIDC clients share the same `sso.redhat.com` realm.
Claims from the token issued by `sso.redhat.com` are mapped to an ACS-issued token as follows:

* `realm_access.roles` to `groups`
* `org_id` to `rh_org_id`
* `is_org_admin` to `rh_is_org_admin`
* `sub` to `userid`

The built-in Red Hat SSO authentication provider has the required attribute `rh_org_id` set to the organization ID assigned to account of the user who created the ACSCS instance.
This is the ID of the organizational account the user is a part of. This can be thought of as the "tenant" the user is under and owned by.
Only users with the same organizational account can access the ACS console by using the Red Hat SSO authentication provider.

[NOTE]
====
To gain more control over access to your ACS Console, configure another identity provider instead of relying on the Red Hat SSO authentication provider.

> You can set up your own identity provider after provisioning by using one of the guides under `Operating -> Managing user access`.

Reviewer: Operating -> Managing user access is not a menu item in the GUI, it's one of the documentation pages, so I think it should not be backticks? But bold, instead, because the user clicks on it to navigate.

Reviewer: Here is the guidance:

https://github.com/openshift/openshift-docs/blob/main/contributing_to_docs/doc_guidelines.adoc#quick-markup-reference.

Use backticks for all non-GUI "system items", including:

Inline commands, operations, literal values, variables, parameters, settings, flags, environment variables, user input

System term/item, user names, unique or example names for individual API objects/resources (e.g., a pod named mypod), daemon, service, or software package

RPM packages

File names or directory paths
